title: The Power of Co-op
subtitle: Gaining Real Experience with Real Impact
image: neu.png
date: March 22, 2025

---
I hate to sound like I am writing this from my school's marketing office, but when I say that the Northeastern experience is unique in what it can offer, I truly mean it. The co-op program that can be found here sets this school apart from all of its peers, both up and down the rankings.

Most college students will complete at least one internship during a summer while in college. These usually run for 8-12 weeks and offer an opportunity to gain experience working in a field related to your major. On the surface, these are great for your resume and give you a good sense of what the company is like. However, an internship is nothing like a co-op.

On one hand, the limited time as an intern means that you will not be able to fully integrate within a team, have ownership and input on long term projects, or truly see the outcome of your work. In contrast, a co-op runs for a minimum of 4-months, usually 6-months, and possibly even 8-months, all giving you the time to become a real and active contributer for the company. You get to experience the real responsibility of someone working in your role and are often trusted with more important tasks than that of an intern.

Looking towards the future, the duration of the co-op allows you to honestly ask yourself: is this a company I could see myself working for? While possible to answer that as an intern, you won't get the full scope and exposure you would gain as a co-op. This also goes well in reverse. The company gets more time to know you and better understand your fit. If the feeling is mutual, it is more affirming and developed the that of an intern return offer because there is more time to be assured of the fit.

From a social side of things, it is an amazing experience to be in school but also working full time. Your weekends are free, you do not worry about homework, and you have a little bit of extra cash on the side. But you are still a college student, so you do not really have an real responsibilities.

By the time I graduate, I will have gone on three co-ops in the summer/fall of 2023, 2024, and 2025. I am truly grateful for these experiences and feel that I have grown professionally in ways that only these co-op experiences could have offered.